# Version 0.1.0: Initial Backend

## Problem Statement

The primary challenge we faced in the early stages of backend development was setting up a clean, scalable, and maintainable architecture for a growing set of features. Each new feature required creating models, controllers, services, and route handlers. This became cumbersome as more modules were added, and maintaining consistency became difficult. We needed a solution that allowed the development team to quickly scaffold new features, ensure adherence to coding standards, and efficiently manage role-based access.

## The Decision to Use

To address this, we chose **Express.js** as our backend framework with **TypeScript** for static typing, which helps in reducing bugs and enhancing code maintainability. We also adopted **Sequelize ORM** for database interactions to allow flexibility in switching between different databases like MySQL and PostgresSQL in the future. Also many different packages.

We structured our backend to use the following components:

- **src/api/v0/routes**: For managing the API endpoints.
- **src/api/v0/controllers**: For handling the business logic.
- **src/api/v0/services**: For database and logic abstraction.
- **src/middleware**: For common tasks like authentication and error handling.

## Challenges Faced and Solutions Provided

### Jun 10, 2024

#### Backend Environment Setup:

- **Problem**: We needed to set up a backend environment using Express, TypeScript, and integrate a database. This was crucial for establishing the foundation of our project.
- **Solution**:

  - We started by setting up the basic environment ([99172f8](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/99172f8)).
  - We then set up Express with TypeScript ([429b8a5](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/429b8a5)). Here is an excerpt from the `package.json` file, which highlights the setup:

  ```json
  {
    "name": "edust-backend",
    "version": "1.0.0",
    "description": "",
    "main": "index.js",
    "scripts": {
      "build": "tsc",
      "start": "node dist/server.js",
      "dev": "nodemon",
      "lint": "eslint . --ext .ts",
      "format": "prettier --write .",
      "db:migrate": "ts-node migrate.ts",
      "db:seed": "npx sequelize-cli db:seed:all",
      "test": "echo \"Error: no test specified\" && exit 1"
    },
    "keywords": [],
    "author": "",
    "license": "ISC",
    "dependencies": {
      "bcrypt": "^5.1.1",
      "body-parser": "^1.20.2",
      "cookie-parser": "^1.4.6",
      "cors": "^2.8.5",
      "dotenv": "^16.4.5",
      "express": "^4.19.2",
      "express-validator": "^7.1.0",
      "jsonwebtoken": "^9.0.2",
      "mysql2": "^3.10.2",
      "sequelize": "^6.37.3",
      "umzug": "^3.8.1"
    },
    "devDependencies": {
      "@types/bcrypt": "^5.0.2",
      "@types/body-parser": "^1.19.5",
      "@types/cookie-parser": "^1.4.7",
      "@types/cors": "^2.8.17",
      "@types/es6-promise": "^3.3.0",
      "@types/express": "^4.17.21",
      "@types/jsonwebtoken": "^9.0.6",
      "@types/node": "^20.14.10",
      "@types/sequelize": "^4.28.20",
      "@typescript-eslint/eslint-plugin": "^7.16.0",
      "@typescript-eslint/parser": "^7.16.0",
      "eslint": "^9.6.0",
      "eslint-config-prettier": "^9.1.0",
      "eslint-import-resolver-typescript": "^3.6.1",
      "eslint-plugin-prettier": "^5.1.3",
      "nodemon": "^3.1.4",
      "prettier": "^3.3.2",
      "sequelize-cli": "^6.6.2",
      "ts-node": "^10.9.2",
      "ts-node-dev": "^2.0.0",
      "tsconfig-paths": "^4.2.0",
      "typescript": "^5.5.3"
    }
  }
  ```

  The setup involved a lot of configuration, such as adding TypeScript support, setting up database migrations and seeders, linting with ESLint, and code formatting with Prettier.

- **Challenges**
  The main challenge we faced was dealing with database migrations and seeders. While there are plenty of resources available for JavaScript, we had fewer resources for TypeScript. We had to figure out how to properly handle these using TypeScript and Sequelize ORM. This took time, but we resolved it by carefully integrating the right TypeScript tools.

### Jun 12, 2024

#### Backend Environment Setup:

- **Problem**: We needed to define and set up roles for both users and organizations in the backend. The goal was to establish a clear structure for permissions and access control across different types of users and organizations within the system.

- **Solution**:

  - Created the **organization model** to represent organizations in the database ([d1c67a0](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/d1c67a0)).
  - Added the **organization role** to handle role-based access for organizations ([f338b50](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/f338b50)).
  - Completed **organization role seeding** to populate the database with predefined roles ([81f9852](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/81f9852)).
  - Built the **user model, migration, and seed** to set up users in the system ([a1d421c](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/a1d421c)).
  - Wrapped user generation logic in a function for better management and reuse ([241f58f](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/241f58f)).
  - Created the **role model** for assigning roles to users ([0baef36](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/0baef36)).
  - Updated user and role models to better reflect their relationship and interaction ([c2e6d09](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/c2e6d09)).
  - Established the **user role** to define user access based on their assigned role ([385f912](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/385f912)).

- **Challenges**
  - Setting up `seeding` for both users and organization roles was tricky, especially ensuring that the correct roles were assigned during the database population.
  - Maintaining consistency across both `user roles` and `organization roles` required careful planning and testing to avoid conflicts between the two different role structures.

### Jun 13, 2024

#### Global Error Handling and File Improvements:

- **Problem**: As the project grew, error handling across different modules became inconsistent. There was a need for a unified error-handling mechanism to ensure that errors were managed effectively and didn't cause unexpected crashes. Additionally, some files required improvements to streamline the overall project structure.

- **Solution**:

  - Implemented **global error handling** to ensure consistent error management throughout the application ([e1a908f](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/e1a908f)).
  - Improved various **files and project structure** for better organization and maintainability.

- **Challenges**:

  - Ensuring that all modules and routes properly utilized the global error-handling mechanism required thorough testing and refactoring.
  - Refactoring multiple files without breaking existing functionality was challenging, as changes needed to be incremental and well-coordinated with the rest of the team.

#### Swagger Documentation Setup for API Docs:

- **Problem**: As our API expanded, documenting the endpoints and ensuring developers could easily understand and interact with them became a necessity. Without proper documentation, it was hard for team members and external developers to understand how to use the API.

- **Solution**:

  - Set up **Swagger docs** to API documentation for all routes ([0945626](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/0945626)).
  - This setup allowed us to expose the API documentation at a specific endpoint, `/api-docs`, so it can be accessed easily by any developer.

- **Challenges**:
  - Ensuring that Swagger correctly reflected all routes and endpoints required detailed integration across various modules.
  - Keeping the documentation in sync with the actual implementation was initially a challenge, especially as new routes and features were added.

### Jun 14, 2024

#### User Authentication System Setup:

- **Problem**: We needed to implement a robust user authentication system, allowing users to register and log in using their email and password. Additionally, proper authentication checks and requirements had to be in place for protected routes.

- **Solution**:

  - Implemented the **login feature** where users can log in using their email and password ([2ec994c](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/2ec994c)).
  - Created the **registration service** to allow users to create an account ([9bc8f55](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/9bc8f55)).
  - Established that a **user can create an account** through the registration process ([b2acb6a](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/b2acb6a)).
  - Added **authentication requirements**, ensuring only authorized users can access protected routes ([9682246](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/9682246)).
  - Continued **working with authentication**, refining processes and improving the overall flow ([842d8b5](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/842d8b5)).

- **Challenges**:
  - Ensuring the authentication flow was both secure and user-friendly was a key challenge.
  - Properly handling edge cases, such as incorrect credentials or missing authentication tokens, required extensive testing.
  - Integrating the authentication system across all modules while maintaining scalability for future features was complex and required coordination across the development team.

### Jun 15, 2024

#### Added PugJS for Templating:

- **Problem**: As we worked on backend development, we required a flexible and efficient templating engine to dynamically generate HTML for certain features. The goal was to make server-side rendering easier and more efficient.

- **Solution**:

  - Integrated **PugJS** into the project as our templating engine ([b975e36](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/b975e36)).
  - This allowed us to create reusable HTML templates, simplifying the rendering of dynamic content.

- **Challenges**:
  - Learning and implementing **PugJS syntax** across different views and ensuring consistency with previously used static HTML was initially challenging.
  - Adapting the existing project structure to incorporate **PugJS** required some refactoring, especially in routes that rendered views dynamically.

#### User Authentication Improvements and Swagger Fixes:

- **Problem**: We identified issues in the user authentication process, especially with finding users by email and ensuring proper protection for authenticated routes. Additionally, there were inconsistencies in the Swagger documentation for login and registration endpoints.

- **Solution**:

  - Improved the **findUserByEmail** function for more accurate user retrieval ([e7c373b](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/e7c373b)).
  - Implemented **authenticated route protection** to ensure only logged-in users can access specific routes ([0d07857](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/0d07857)).
  - Enhanced the **usersGetMe** route to retrieve user data based on their email, streamlining the user profile endpoint ([9b01cff](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/9b01cff)).
  - Fixed issues with **Swagger documentation** for login and registration routes, ensuring all details were correctly displayed in the API docs ([ab5fd2c](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/ab5fd2c)).

- **Challenges**:

  - Ensuring that **email-based user retrieval** was consistent across multiple services and routes, especially during the login and profile processes.
  - Adding **protection for authenticated routes** required refactoring several parts of the codebase to ensure proper checks and balances were in place.
  - Maintaining the accuracy of **Swagger documentation** as the codebase evolved, particularly for frequently changing authentication endpoints, was an ongoing challenge.

### Jun 16, 2024

#### Fixing Issues with Path Alias:

- **Problem**: We encountered issues with the use of **path aliases** in the codebase. These problems caused difficulties in importing modules and managing the project's structure efficiently, leading to confusion and errors.

- **Solution**:

  - Fixed the issues related to **path aliasing** by correcting alias paths in the `tsconfig.json` file and ensuring all imports were properly referenced ([4b7215b](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/4b7215b)).
  - Verified that the project structure and paths were well-aligned with the updated alias configurations.

- **Challenges**:
  - Troubleshooting **path resolution errors** caused by misconfigured aliases, which required careful examination of import statements throughout the project.
  - Ensuring that the **TypeScript compiler** and runtime could consistently resolve the aliases without issues during both development and production builds.
  - And also more import think that is in **database** directory we don't use any alias for `sequelize` migration problem.

#### Database Models, Relationships, and Role Management Enhancements:

- **Problem**: As the project grew, we needed to enhance the database model structure and relationships to properly handle user roles, foreign keys, and organization creation. Additionally, the structure of our models and their relationships was becoming more complex, leading to potential inconsistencies.

- **Solution**:

  - Improved **role conversion** and added more user data to enhance flexibility ([fe0e875](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/fe0e875)).
  - Enhanced **database relationships** to better manage foreign key associations between models ([c6062e3](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/c6062e3)).
  - Created the **root models directory** to establish a clean structure for all models ([f1dcdb6](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/f1dcdb6)).
  - Ensured that the **userRole foreign key** was working correctly, resolving key mapping issues ([e985bcd](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/e985bcd)).
  - Cleaned up **models/index.ts** to maintain a cleaner structure for importing models ([7753010](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/7753010)).
  - Fixed **model relationships** to ensure seamless interactions between users, roles, and organizations ([41b70c9](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/41b70c9)).
  - Implemented **organization creation**, allowing users to create and manage organizations ([201c86a](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/201c86a)).

- **Challenges**:
  - Ensuring that **role conversion** worked smoothly across different components while integrating the new data fields.
  - Handling **foreign key relationships** between user roles and organizations required careful management to avoid breaking dependencies in the database.
  - Structuring the **models directory** and fixing relationships to avoid potential circular dependencies or incorrect associations during development.

### Jun 17, 2024

#### Authentication and Security Enhancements:

- **Problem**: We needed to improve security by enhancing token management and implement additional features related to user authentication, such as organization creation and middleware improvements.

- **Solution**:

  - Added **documentation for logout** and login endpoints ([92eb01f](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/92eb01f)).
  - Improved token security by **storing tokens in cookies** rather than in the request body for better protection ([2dc8e7e](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/2dc8e7e)).
  - Enabled **organization creation** and enhanced token management by allowing re-sending tokens when needed ([2fe3c56](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/2fe3c56)).
  - Worked on the **authentication middleware**, ensuring smoother integration with various routes and services ([0105b0e](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/0105b0e)).

- **Challenges**:
  - Securing tokens while maintaining ease of use required balancing **security** and **performance**.
  - Ensuring that **organization creation** was properly linked to user authentication and that tokens were handled securely during the creation process.
  - Improving the **authentication middleware** to ensure proper request validation without introducing performance overhead.

#### Migration File Path Updates:

- **Problem**: The existing migration file paths were not optimized, leading to issues with consistency and organization across the project.

- **Solution**:

  - **Changed migration file paths** to ensure better organization and file management across the project ([dd19762](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/dd19762)).
  - Updated the `migrate.ts` file to reflect the **new file path structure**, making migration operations smoother and more reliable ([6a404c0](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/6a404c0)).

- **Challenges**:
  - Ensuring that the **file path changes** did not disrupt existing database migration processes or configurations.
  - **Adapting the team** to the new file path structure and ensuring seamless integration into the existing workflow.

#### Email Sender and Role-based Authentication Fixes:

- **Problem**:

  - The email sender service was not functioning as expected, causing issues with sending notifications.
  - Role-based authentication had errors, leading to incorrect permission handling.

- **Solution**:

  - Implemented a **working email sender service**, allowing notifications to be sent reliably across the system ([8e8d16e](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/8e8d16e)).
  - **Fixed errors in role-based authentication**, ensuring correct role permissions are applied and access is restricted appropriately ([d883c8d](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/d883c8d)).

- **Challenges**:
  - Debugging the **email sending process** to ensure consistent delivery across different environments.
  - Resolving the **role-based authentication errors** while maintaining security and ensuring minimal disruption to existing users.

### Jun 18, 2024

#### Email Templates, Token Expiration, and Password Reset:

- **Problem**:

  - Emails sent were plain text and lacked a professional appearance.
  - Tokens for authentication and password resets had no automated expiration mechanism.
  - The password reset process was incomplete and lacked the necessary controller and model implementation.

- **Solution**:

  - Integrated **Pug templates for emails**, enhancing the design and readability of the emails sent ([d912de7](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/d912de7)).
  - Implemented **token expiration using cron jobs**, ensuring that tokens automatically expire after a set time period ([066695f](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/066695f)).
  - Added functionality for **forget password** with OTP and password reset flow ([0384050](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/0384050), [851d368](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/851d368)).
  - Created the **forget-password controller**, finalizing the password reset process ([c06efea](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/c06efea)).
  - Developed the **password-reset-token model and migration**, ensuring token storage and validation for secure password resets ([6764de0](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/6764de0)).

- **Challenges**:

  - Designing dynamic email templates using Pug to support multiple types of emails.
  - Ensuring the **cron job** for token expiration works seamlessly without interrupting user sessions or functionality.
  - Securing the **password reset flow** to prevent unauthorized access while maintaining ease of use for legitimate users.

### Jun 27, 2024

#### Error Handling Improvements and Middleware Adjustments:

- **Problem**:

  - Error handling mechanisms were not standardized across the project.
  - Logging needed to be optimized to provide more concise request data.
  - The `bodyParser` middleware was redundant as Express already provides built-in support for parsing request bodies.

- **Solution**:

  - Improved error handling by replacing custom error logic with **`createHttpError`**, providing more standardized and readable error responses ([92e9eca](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/92e9eca), [5421b01](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/5421b01)).
  - Set up **Morgan with the `tiny` format** for lightweight logging, improving logging efficiency without losing valuable information ([d182da0](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/d182da0)).
  - Removed the redundant **`bodyParser` middleware** to streamline middleware use and prevent unnecessary dependencies ([3db16ba](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/3db16ba)).
  - Fixed configuration issues in **tsconfig** to ensure proper TypeScript compilation and project setup ([d3f7ab7](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/d3f7ab7)).

- **Challenges**:
  - Ensuring that replacing the custom error logic with `createHttpError` did not break existing error-handling flows.
  - Keeping the log files concise yet informative with Morgan’s `tiny` format.
  - Adjusting the `tsconfig` setup to handle the evolving structure of the project without introducing breaking changes.

### Jun 29, 2024

#### Database Table Setup and Command Adjustments:

- **Problem**:

  - The database migration command was causing issues on Windows environments.
  - Some unnecessary packages were cluttering the project and needed to be removed.
  - New tables for images and organization page data were required to support new features.

- **Solution**:

  - Adjusted the **migration command** to address Windows-specific issues by modifying the script to ensure compatibility across different environments ([cf23000](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/cf23000)).
  - **Removed unnecessary packages** to clean up the project dependencies and improve maintainability ([e869430](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/e869430)).
  - Created a **new database table for storing images**, enabling the system to save and manage media content more effectively ([2939f50](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/2939f50)).
  - Set up a **new organization_page data table** to store additional information related to organizations' customizable pages ([1ea9f4a](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/1ea9f4a)).

- **Challenges**:
  - Ensuring that the migration command worked seamlessly across different operating systems without causing issues for developers using Windows.
  - Identifying and safely removing packages without breaking existing functionality.
  - Structuring the new tables to efficiently handle media storage and organization data while maintaining optimal performance.

#### Validation Setup for Authentication:

- **Problem**:

  - Implementing proper validation for user registration to ensure the input data is accurate and secure.
  - The need to adjust naming conventions for better clarity and functionality within the project.

- **Solution**:

  - Set up **express-validator** for handling input validation during user registration, ensuring that incoming data meets specified requirements ([45b425f](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/45b425f)).
  - Changed a **naming convention** to improve the readability and functionality of abilities related to user roles and permissions ([34e5dc9](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/34e5dc9)).
  - **Validator setup** completed for user authentication to maintain consistent and secure input validation across various endpoints ([48b6987](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/48b6987)).

- **Challenges**:
  - Ensuring validation rules were comprehensive enough to cover all necessary input fields without introducing excessive complexity.
  - Refactoring and renaming required caution to avoid breaking existing functionality or introducing bugs.

#### PostgreSQL Database Setup and Seed Updates:

- **Problem**:

  - The need to switch from MySQL to PostgreSQL as the primary database while maintaining compatibility.
  - Introducing an organizer user in the seed data to support role-based functionality.

- **Solution**:

  - **PostgreSQL database setup** was completed, including the migration of database-related operations from MySQL to PostgreSQL ([9cf6cba](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/9cf6cba)).
  - Added **organizer user** to the seed data to ensure role-based access control has predefined roles available ([b0b1f73](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/b0b1f73)).
  - The **database name** was changed dynamically to reflect the site name in the configuration, enhancing deployment flexibility ([dc8726e](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/dc8726e)).
  - Set up **PostgreSQL** as an alternative to MySQL, ensuring the codebase supports both databases ([0f2c39a](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/0f2c39a)).
  - Removed unnecessary **logs** to keep the code clean and reduce clutter ([76f2d08](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/76f2d08)).

- **Challenges**:

  - Managing compatibility between MySQL and PostgreSQL databases while ensuring migrations and seeders work seamlessly across both environments.
  - Adjusting configurations to make database settings flexible and easy to adapt for different environments.

### Jun 30, 2024

#### Image and Organization Page Management:

- **Problem**:

  - The need to manage organization pages and images, including uploading, updating, and deleting both pages and images for organization owners.
  - Organization owners should have full control over their site's pages and media.

- **Solution**:

  - **Image Upload**: Enabled organization owners to upload images to the public directory ([f6d8cd0](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/f6d8cd0)).
  - **Image Management**:
    - Allowed organization owners to upload images ([13ffe55](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/13ffe55)).
    - Added functionality to **get all images** uploaded by the owner ([96861f4](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/96861f4)).
    - Implemented the ability for organization owners to delete images using their ID ([782b2f2](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/782b2f2)) and manage image deletion in general ([9fed996](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/9fed996)).
  - **Organization Page Management**:
    - Enabled organization owners to **create pages** for their site ([a592bc4](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/a592bc4)).
    - Allowed them to **update pages** ([9f55b5f](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/9f55b5f)) and **delete pages** as needed ([334bbda](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/334bbda)).
    - Added functionality to **view all pages owned by the organization** ([81a0175](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/81a0175)) and **get all pages by the owner** ([817b770](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/817b770)).
    - Implemented APIs for **site page creation and retrieval** ([b2f2d53](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/b2f2d53), [0c3592f](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/0c3592f)).

- **Challenges**:
  - Ensuring proper access control so that only organization owners can manage their images and pages.
  - Handling large amounts of image data and ensuring efficient retrieval and deletion processes.

### Aug 1, 2024

#### Email Sender Implementation:

- **Problem**:

  - The need to send verification and notification emails to users during the authentication process, requiring reliable email handling in the application.

- **Solution**:

  - **Email Sending Setup**: Implemented email functionality using NodeMailer ([9ad9648](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/9ad9648)).
  - **User Verification**:
    - Added a new column for user verification in the database to manage user email verification status ([a0c408e](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/a0c408e)).
    - Enhanced the authentication process by integrating token-based verification for user registration ([9df3a24](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/9df3a24)).
  - **File Updates**: Updated some file names and organized project structure to better reflect the new email functionality ([8db0d03](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/8db0d03)).
  - **Package Updates**: Made changes to the `package.json` file to include necessary dependencies for NodeMailer ([ad687f0](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/ad687f0)).
  - **Testing**: Conducted tests to ensure that the email generation and sending processes were functioning correctly ([6fd941b](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/6fd941b)).

- **Challenges**:
  - Ensuring emails are sent successfully and are not marked as spam.
  - Handling error scenarios when sending emails and providing feedback to users during the registration process.

#### Testing Implementation:

- **Problem**:

  - The need to ensure the reliability and correctness of the authentication system, including features such as OTP verification and user login. This required a robust testing framework to automate tests and improve code quality.

- **Solution**:

  - **Jest Setup**: Configured Jest for unit and integration testing, including tests for OTP verification and login functionalities ([ef0f2d6](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/ef0f2d6)).
  - **API Testing with Supertest**: Implemented Supertest to facilitate testing of API endpoints, allowing us to simulate requests and validate responses for authentication ([10c9b0f](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/10c9b0f)).
  - **Test Coverage**: Developed a suite of tests to cover key functionalities, ensuring that the application behaves as expected under various scenarios.

- **Challenges**:
  - Creating comprehensive test cases that adequately cover all possible user interactions and edge cases.
  - Ensuring that the testing environment mimics production as closely as possible to avoid discrepancies in behavior.

### Aug 6, 2024

#### Authentication and Routing Enhancements:

- **Problem**:
  - The need to improve user authentication flows, including better handling of validation messages, status responses, and ensuring secure cookie management for production environments.
- **Solution**:

  - **Improved Validation Messaging**: Set up clear validation messages using express-validator for better user feedback ([c018c21](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/c018c21)).
  - **User Data and Routes**: Added user data and developed routes to handle user-specific actions ([dbeaeef](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/dbeaeef), [1ef4c43](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/1ef4c43)).
  - **Logout and Authentication Status**: Implemented logout functionality using the DELETE method and enhanced authentication status messages ([3dfd4f8](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/3dfd4f8), [ea8acfa](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/ea8acfa)).
  - **Cookies Management**: Secured cookies for production environments and addressed issues related to cookies during login and logout ([17a2d7a](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/17a2d7a), [f053fc9](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/f053fc9)).
  - **Auth Routes and Validation**: Adjusted file naming for authentication consistency and improved OTP validation ([a2f0a1c](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/a2f0a1c), [2fef622](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/2fef622)).
  - **Playground Route**: Added a route playground to experiment with new routing features ([aa3e445](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/aa3e445)).

- **Challenges**:
  - Managing secure cookies in both development and production environments.
  - Implementing robust validation that provides meaningful error messages to users.

#### Dependency Management Update:

- **Problem**:

  - The need to streamline project dependencies and improve package management consistency by eliminating unnecessary files.

- **Solution**:
  - **Removal of Unused Log File**: Removed `pkg-log.json` as it was no longer needed with the switch to `pnpm` for package management ([7ee6eb9](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/7ee6eb9)).
- **Challenges**:
  - Ensuring that all dependencies are correctly managed and that the project structure remains clean and maintainable.

### Aug 10, 2024

#### Site Retrieval Features:

- **Problem**:

  - Users needed a reliable way to find sites associated with specific organizations, either by organization ID or username.

- **Solution**:
  - **Site Retrieval by Organization**: Implemented functionality that allows users to find sites using either `orgId` or `org_username` ([0cc0a75](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/0cc0a75)).
  - **Public Sites API**: Created a new API endpoint for accessing public sites ([1225f6a](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/1225f6a)).
  - **Authenticated Organization Access**: Enabled authenticated users to view their associated organizations ([838c292](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/838c292)).
- **Challenges**:
  - Ensuring proper authentication and authorization checks to prevent unauthorized access to organization information.

### Aug 26, 2024

#### Organization and User Management Enhancements:

- **Problem**:

  - The need for improved organization creation, database migrations, and user API functionality.

- **Solution**:

  - **Successful Organization Creation**: Implemented the functionality for successful organization creation ([fff6e26](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/fff6e26)).
  - **Database Migration**: Completed necessary database migrations to align with the new features ([93e2d5c](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/93e2d5c)).
  - **Database Changes**: Made updates to the database schema as required ([41a3724](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/41a3724)).
  - **Response Status Management**: Added response status handling to provide clearer feedback on API calls ([902b9ec](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/902b9ec), [5c91acd](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/5c91acd)).
  - **Seeder Enhancements**: Increased user data in seeders and improved the seeder data for better testing and development ([91dd59f](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/91dd59f), [2dca67e](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/2dca67e)).
  - **User API Development**: Continued development on the user API to enhance functionality ([ff0d3d1](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/ff0d3d1)).
  - **Page Data Organization**: Adjusted the order of page data retrieval to prioritize pages named "home" ([992eeed](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/992eeed)).
  - **Seeding Data Adjustments**: Edited seeders to include necessary data for better consistency ([3def0d9](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/3def0d9)).

- **Challenges**:
  - Ensuring that the database changes did not impact existing data integrity during migrations and updates.

### Aug 27, 2024

#### Site Functionality and Model Implementation:

- **Problem**:

  - The need to implement a fully functional site feature with proper routing, controllers, and services.

- **Solution**:

  - **Site Functionality**: Achieved a working implementation of the site feature ([c288877](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/c288877), [16281b2](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/16281b2)).
  - **Model, Routes, Controller, and Service**: Developed and implemented the Site model along with its associated routes, controller, and service, providing a structured approach for handling site-related requests ([1dfad2d](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/1dfad2d), [d1e11d6](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/d1e11d6)).

- **Challenges**:
  - Ensuring that the integration of the site model with existing services and controllers did not disrupt current functionalities.

### Aug 28, 2024

#### Image Upload and Cloudinary Integration:

- **Problem**:

  - The need for a reliable image upload solution to handle image storage and hosting.

- **Solution**:

  - **Cloudinary Integration**: Successfully implemented Cloudinary for image hosting, ensuring that images are uploaded efficiently and stored securely ([763cac1](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/763cac1), [840245a](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/840245a)).
  - **Multer Configuration**: Fixed the file format handling in middleware using Multer to ensure proper file uploads ([5392f93](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/5392f93), [2163ed4](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/2163ed4)).
  - **Upload Functionality**: Ensured that the image upload process works smoothly, merging and refining existing branches for better code management ([a879ca7](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/a879ca7), [0bc6043](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/0bc6043)).

- **Challenges**:
  - Overcoming integration issues between Multer and Cloudinary to achieve a seamless image upload experience.

#### Image Management and API Enhancements:

- **Problem**:

  - The need for robust image management features, including the ability to update, delete, and retrieve images efficiently.

- **Solution**:

  - **Image Update and Delete**: Implemented functionality to allow users to update and delete images, enhancing overall image management ([94b23e3](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/94b23e3)).
  - **Image URL Decoding**: Added functionality to decode image URLs to ensure they are properly formatted for API responses ([0230690](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/0230690)).
  - **Image Retrieval**: Enabled owners to retrieve their uploaded images, improving user experience ([6742b2b](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/6742b2b)).
  - **Code Clean-Up**: Removed unnecessary console logs and set alt attributes back for images, contributing to cleaner code and better accessibility ([31c9e97](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/31c9e97), [576fadc](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/576fadc)).
  - **Response Improvement**: Enhanced the API response structure for better clarity and usability ([e968e34](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/e968e34)).

- **Challenges**:
  - Ensuring proper handling of image URLs and optimizing the response format to meet user expectations and improve overall functionality.

### Aug 29, 2024

#### Site Functionality and User Access Improvements:

- **Problem**:

  - Need for improved site management features and user access to site functionalities.

- **Solution**:

  - **Merge Updates**: Merged branch 'dev' into 'nazmul' to incorporate the latest features ([599d6c8](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/599d6c8)).
  - **Site Functionality**: Enhanced the site's core functionalities, ensuring that users can properly update and delete site pages ([0cfa339](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/0cfa339)).
  - **User Access**: Enabled public users to view the site, improving accessibility and user engagement ([9521116](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/9521116)).
  - **Bug Fixes**: Fixed issues to ensure the site operates smoothly ([712eb5f](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/712eb5f), [fa65999](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/fa65999)).
  - **Edit Functionality**: Improved the editing capabilities for site pages ([7bf41af](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/7bf41af)).
  - **Code Clean-Up**: Removed unnecessary site pages to streamline the application ([374be1e](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/374be1e)).

- **Challenges**:
  - Ensuring the reliability of new features and maintaining a seamless user experience during updates.

### Aug 30, 2024

#### Account Management and Authentication Setup:

- **Problem**:

  - Requirement for robust user account types and authentication mechanisms.

- **Solution**:

  - **Account Type Creation**: Established a new type for user accounts to facilitate better management and categorization ([30510a0](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/30510a0)).
  - **Environment Configuration**: Updated environment variables to support new features ([17882cc](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/17882cc)).
  - **Authentication**: Implemented `passport-local` authentication to enhance user security and access control ([eca49c7](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/eca49c7)).
  - **User Updates**: Integrated user value updates during organization creation, ensuring data integrity ([09ce240](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/09ce240)).
  - **Auth Improvements**: Enhanced overall authentication workflow to improve user experience ([a93fe81](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/a93fe81)).

- **Challenges**:
  - Balancing security measures with user experience during the authentication process.

#### Database and Seeding Enhancements:

- **Problem**:

  - Need for unique identifiers in the database and effective seeding practices.

- **Solution**:

  - **UUID Implementation**: Updated the database schema to utilize UUIDv4 for unique identification of records ([d82df5b](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/d82df5b)).
  - **Seeding**: Enhanced the seeding process to ensure that it operates correctly ([b621a71](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/b621a71)).
  - **Migration and Seeding Integration**: Ensured that migrations and seeders work seamlessly together ([e20a9b2](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/e20a9b2)).
  - **UUID Testing**: Verified the functionality of UUIDs, although some issues were found with the seeding process ([37286de](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/37286de)).

- **Challenges**:

  - Ensuring that UUIDs are correctly seeded in the database and maintaining data integrity during migrations.

  ### Aug 31, 2024

#### Implementation of Social Media Strategies:

- **Problem**:

  - Need to integrate various social media login strategies for enhanced user authentication.

- **Solution**:

  - **Facebook Strategy**: Developed and implemented the Facebook authentication strategy ([aa5a8fb](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/aa5a8fb)).
  - **GitHub Strategy**: Created multiple GitHub authentication strategies to allow users to log in with their GitHub accounts ([3b75413](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/3b75413), [11a3e35](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/11a3e35)).
  - **Site ID Adjustments**: Removed the default ID from the site configuration to streamline the data structure ([1a982b5](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/1a982b5)).
  - **Google Sign-In**: Implemented Google Sign-In functionality along with the site data integration ([30ab89e](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/30ab89e)).
  - **Google Strategy**: Established the Google authentication strategy to facilitate user logins through Google accounts ([a31cb57](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/a31cb57), [b6fd251](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/b6fd251), [24c601f](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/24c601f)).

- **Challenges**:
  - Ensuring seamless integration and functionality of multiple social media login strategies.

### Sep 6, 2024

#### Institute Management System Enhancements:

- **Problem**:

  - Need for improved data structure and seeding for institutes in the database.

- **Solution**:

  - **Environment File**: Renamed the environment example file for better clarity and organization ([a40ab41](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/a40ab41)).
  - **Seed Fixes**: Resolved several issues related to seed data for the institute model ([40df469](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/40df469)).
  - **Institute Data Retrieval**: Implemented functionality to retrieve all institutes and individual institute details by ID ([6526545](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/6526545)).
  - **Institute Management**: Worked extensively on the institute management features, enhancing the model and migration setup ([4b560a3](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/4b560a3), [1a854e0](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/1a854e0)).
  - **Categorization Updates**: Renamed `institute-type` to `institute-category` to improve data organization ([b160181](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/b160181)).
  - **Institute Type Definition**: Established the definition for institute types to support categorization ([8b1dcc5](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/8b1dcc5)).
  - **String ID Adjustment**: Modified the model ID type to string for better compatibility ([df6b6c2](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/df6b6c2)).

- **Challenges**:
  - Ensuring data integrity during migrations and maintaining a clear structure for the institute data model.

### Sep 10, 2024

#### Middleware Organization and Licensing:

- **Problem**:

  - Need for better organization of middleware files and proper licensing documentation.

- **Solution**:
  - **Middleware Directory Restructure**: Moved the middleware directory into the `src` folder for better structure and access ([bea0884](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/bea0884)).
  - **License Addition**: Added a license file to the repository to clarify usage rights ([caae338](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/caae338)).

#### Configuration and Environment Updates:

- **Problem**:

  - Need for improved environment variable management in configuration files.

- **Solution**:
  - **Sequelize Configuration Fix**: Fixed the Sequelize configuration to correctly import dotenv variables, ensuring environment settings are properly loaded ([b63dcfc](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/b63dcfc)).
  - **Dotenv Upgrade**: Switched from `dotenv` to `dotenvx` to enhance environment variable management ([bec046e](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/bec046e)).

### Sep 12, 2024

#### Documentation for Organizations:

- **Problem**:

  - Need for comprehensive API documentation related to organizations.

- **Solution**:

  - **Documentation Completion**: Completed the documentation for organizations, detailing the structure and usage of the API ([d608bff](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/d608bff)).
  - **API Fixes**: Created and fixed the API documentation for creating and retrieving organizations, addressing issues with IDs in database models ([22129bb](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/22129bb)).
  - **Swagger Updates**: Updated Swagger documentation titles and descriptions to reflect accurate information about authentication and data models ([e1aa623](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/e1aa623), [c3ebb06](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/c3ebb06), [72e17df](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/72e17df)).

- **Challenges**:

  - Ensuring that the documentation accurately reflects the API functionalities and is easily understandable for users.

  ### Sep 13, 2024

#### Enhancements in Documentation and Public APIs:

- **Problem**:

  - Need for improved documentation for authentication and public API endpoints.

- **Solution**:

  - **Environment Configuration**: Imported `dotenvx` at the top of the server file and removed other imports for cleaner environment variable management ([89d494e](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/89d494e)).
  - **API Method Fix**: Corrected the authentication documentation for social login, changing the method from POST to GET as necessary ([0fae416](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/0fae416)).
  - **Social Strategy Updates**: Enhanced documentation for social authentication strategies ([67da387](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/67da387)).
  - **Public Institutes Endpoint**: Implemented the functionality for accessing public institute data ([d0b89f7](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/d0b89f7)).
  - **Institute Documentation**: Completed documentation for institutes, ensuring clear usage instructions and endpoint descriptions ([de43d2b](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/de43d2b)).
  - **Swagger Configuration Updates**: Updated Swagger configuration to reflect changes in documentation ([9bcb702](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/9bcb702)).
  - **API Documentation Completeness**: Finished the documentation for various endpoints, including institute and site-related APIs ([4fe6e50](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/4fe6e50), [116ecc2](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/116ecc2), [ca57c11](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/ca57c11), [0a4e482](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/0a4e482), [8d81224](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/8d81224), [a25d5ed](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/a25d5ed), [ef4340c](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/ef4340c)).

- **Challenges**:
  - Ensuring that all public API documentation accurately reflects the current state of the application.

#### Database and File Convention Documentation:

- **Problem**:

  - Need for clear documentation regarding database and file conventions used in the project.

- **Solution**:
  - **README Addition**: Added a README file detailing database conventions and file structure ([a67a3b1](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/a67a3b1)).
  - **README Updates**: Updated the README to reflect recent changes and improvements ([97b99fa](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/97b99fa)).

### Sep 14, 2024

#### Institute Management Enhancements:

- **Problem**:

  - Required additional status handling and improvements in type definitions for the institute model.

- **Solution**:
  - **Status Addition**: Added a status field to the institute model for better state management ([6dc7267](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/6dc7267)).
  - **Common Types Directory**: Created a new directory for common types to organize shared type definitions ([c6185da](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/c6185da)).
  - **Role ID Migration**: Fixed the role ID type in the database, changing from integer to UUID for consistency ([d3b5066](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/d3b5066), [7b98211](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/7b98211)).
  - **Seeders Update**: Corrected type imports in seeders to ensure proper functionality ([33659c8](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/33659c8)).
  - **Types Organization**: Moved TypeScript types to the designated types directory for improved structure ([200c298](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/200c298)).
  - **Role Utilities Fix**: Made improvements to role-related utility functions ([18aa33d](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/18aa33d)).

#### Validation System Overhaul:

- **Problem**:

  - Needed to improve the validation system used in the application.

- **Solution**:
  - **Middleware Changes**: Modified the validation middleware to enhance validation processes ([951d332](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/951d332)).
  - **Zod Validator Implementation**: Set up the Zod validator, removing the previous express-validator for a more streamlined validation process ([c4d9054](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/c4d9054)).

#### Authentication Routes and Email Verification:

- **Problem**:

  - Required validation for authentication routes and enhancements to email verification processes.

- **Solution**:

  - **Auth Routes Validation**: Completed the validation processes for authentication routes to ensure secure data handling ([187a7ff](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/187a7ff)).
  - **Pug Template Fixes**: Fixed the Pug template color and email verification validations ([a7fed93](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/a7fed93)).
  - **Email Verification Functionality**: Ensured the email verification process works effectively ([594a02f](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/594a02f)).
  - **Token Verification**: Implemented the functionality for verifying tokens during the email verification process ([17fc286](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/17fc286)).
  - **Pug Template for Email Verification**: Added a Pug template specifically for the email verification process ([fad1f8e](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/fad1f8e)).

- **Challenges**:

  - Ensuring that the email verification process integrates seamlessly with the overall authentication strategy.

  ### Sep 16, 2024

#### Authentication and Package Management Improvements:

- **Problem**:

  - Need to streamline the authentication system and remove unnecessary code and packages.

- **Solution**:
  - **Code Cleanup**: Removed a JSDoc comment that was no longer relevant ([f04a5ff](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/f04a5ff)).
  - **API Changes**: Eliminated the log out API endpoint, simplifying the authentication flow ([c96a1cf](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/c96a1cf)).
  - **Package Removal**: Removed an unused package from the project to reduce clutter ([ad6fd45](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/ad6fd45)).
  - **JWT Implementation**: Updated the authentication system to use JWT (JSON Web Tokens) for session management, enhancing security ([590a5f0](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/590a5f0)).
  - **Social Authentication**: Ensured that social authentication is functioning correctly ([8ddeaf9](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/8ddeaf9)).
  - **Google Authentication**: Implemented Google authentication successfully, expanding social login options ([db810f9](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/db810f9)).
  - **Code Optimization**: Removed unused code to streamline the project ([09c4f1a](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/09c4f1a)).
  - **Passport-JWT Setup**: Set up the `passport-jwt` strategy for handling JWT authentication ([653a202](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/653a202)).
  - **Documentation**: Added documentation for the login process and included a guest user in the seed data for testing ([57470c8](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/57470c8)).

### Sep 17, 2024

#### Authentication and Organization Management Enhancements:

- **Problem**:

  - Need for improved authentication handling and organization functionality.

- **Solution**:
  - **Reuse of Functions**: Worked on enhancing authentication by reusing the `send-success-res` function to streamline responses ([14bd823](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/14bd823)).
  - **Organization Functionality**: Focused on the development and enhancement of organization-related features, ensuring better integration with the existing auth system ([8c5fa75](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/8c5fa75)).
  - **Auth Improvements**: Made various improvements to the authentication system, addressing any issues identified during testing and development ([d14477f](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/d14477f)).

### Sep 18, 2024

#### Organization Management and Token Handling:

- **Problem**:

  - Need to improve the functionality for getting organization data and handling authentication tokens.

- **Solution**:
  - **Get Organization Self**: Worked on implementing functionality to retrieve the organization’s own data ([d56d6de](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/d56d6de)).
  - **Token Mocks**: Created mocks for generating tokens, aiding in testing and development ([9e887ab](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/9e887ab)).
  - **Jest Testing**: Implemented Jest tests for creating organizations and logging in with tokens to ensure functionality ([b24bfea](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/b24bfea)).

#### HTTP Status Improvements:

- **Problem**:

  - Need for better handling and organization of HTTP status codes in the application.

- **Solution**:
  - **Package Removal**: Removed the existing `http-status-kit` package and replaced it with a new one for improved functionality ([0f90361](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/0f90361)).
  - **Improvements**: Improved the implementation of the `http-status-kit` package to enhance status code management ([bdbe811](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/bdbe811)).
  - **Setup Completion**: Completed the setup of the new `http-status-kit` ([2fb1b4f](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/2fb1b4f)).

### Sep 24, 2024

#### Organization Filtering and Data Management:

- **Problem**:

  - Need to enhance the filtering capabilities for organizations and manage seeder data effectively.

- **Solution**:
  - **Date-Time Improvements**: Improved date-time handling in seeders and worked on organization filtering functionalities ([9f5d7e5](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/9f5d7e5)).
  - **Filter by Username**: Implemented filtering capabilities for organizations by `org_username` ([1023280](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/1023280)).
  - **Organization Count**: Increased the number of organizations in the database ([997f330](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/997f330)).
  - **Name Filtering**: Enabled filtering organizations by name with tests to ensure functionality ([70efae3](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/70efae3)).
  - **Get Organization by ID**: Implemented the ability to retrieve organizations by their ID ([da214ff](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/da214ff)).
  - **Self Data Retrieval**: Completed functionality for retrieving self data for organizations ([b09d54e](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/b09d54e)).
  - **General Organization Work**: Continued to work on various organization-related features ([0af8cd6](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/0af8cd6)).

### Sep 26, 2024

#### Categories and Institutes API Development:

- **Problem**:

  - Need to improve the API for managing categories and institutes.

- **Solution**:
  - **Get Categories**: Implemented functionality to retrieve categories ([d7e2388](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/d7e2388)).
  - **Variable Renaming**: Renamed service variables for better clarity ([972d87d](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/972d87d)).
  - **Public API for Institutes**: Developed public API functionalities for managing institute categories ([60cd841](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/60cd841)).
  - **Package Renaming**: Updated the package name for better identification ([83b0e25](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/83b0e25)).
  - **Swagger Query Changes**: Made minor changes to the query for retrieving institutes in the Swagger documentation ([43872e3](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/43872e3)).
  - **Organization Functionality**: Ensured that the organization-related functionalities work properly ([558faf7](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/558faf7)).
  - **Seeder Data**: Added more data to the institutes seeder for better testing ([2b3e097](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/2b3e097)).
  - **Test Setup**: Set up tests and controller files for managing institutes ([54a72dc](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/54a72dc)).

### Sep 27, 2024

#### Site Management Enhancements:

- **Problem**:

  - Need to improve site management functionalities and data consistency.

- **Solution**:
  - **Site Editing**: Worked on functionalities to edit site details ([2fe13f0](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/2fe13f0)).
  - **Owner Site Access**: Implemented functionality for site owners to access their sites ([a48fea6](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/a48fea6)).
  - **Field Renaming**: Renamed `createdAt` and `updatedAt` fields to `created_at` and `updated_at` for consistency ([3f08836](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/3f08836)).

#### REST Client Setup:

- **Solution**:
  - **Client Setup**: Completed the setup for the REST client to improve API interaction ([cde03c5](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/cde03c5)).

### Sep 28, 2024

#### Public Institutes and Site Management:

- **Problem**:

  - Need to improve public access to institutes and manage site images effectively.

- **Solution**:
  - **Public API for Institutes**: Worked on the public API to retrieve institute data ([f23d1c2](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/f23d1c2)).
  - **Site Retrieval**: Implemented functionality to retrieve sites by organization ID or username ([53a6b89](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/53a6b89)).
  - **User Self Retrieval**: Fixed issues related to retrieving user self data ([8a75b11](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/8a75b11)).
  - **Site Image Management**: Completed functionalities for creating, retrieving, and deleting site images ([cedbe0b](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/cedbe0b)).
  - **Image Retrieval**: Implemented functionality for retrieving site images ([f8c9b28](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/f8c9b28)).

#### Database and Sequelize Enhancements:

- **Problem**:

  - Need to enhance database interaction and improve model structures.

- **Solution**:
  - **User Role Management**: Implemented user role management in the database ([8836569](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/8836569)).
  - **Package Updates**: Updated packages and fixed various issues related to the database ([24a67bc](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/24a67bc)).
  - **Model Indexing**: Added `@Index` in the user model for better query performance ([0d69c92](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/0d69c92)).
  - **Sequelize Types**: Implemented `sequelize-typescript` in the user model for better TypeScript support ([66eb8d6](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/66eb8d6)).
  - **Setup Completion**: Completed the setup for `sequelize-typescript` ([57220fc](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/57220fc)).
  - **Testing Config Removal**: Removed testing configurations from the database setup ([68202f8](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/68202f8)).

### Sep 29, 2024

#### Utility and Connectivity Improvements:

- **Problem**:

  - Need to enhance utility functions and ensure proper connectivity for the application.

- **Solution**:
  - **Utility Addition**: Added an `is-empty` utility function to check for empty values ([1071e18](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/1071e18)).
  - **Issue Fixes**: Addressed various issues to enable the application code to run properly ([59559e2](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/59559e2)).
  - **Sequelize and Connectivity**: Worked on the integration of Sequelize with TypeScript and disabled excessive connectivity errors in the application ([5fbb4c8](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/5fbb4c8)).
  - **Playground Addition**: Added a playground feature for testing and experimentation ([70ebb38](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/70ebb38)).

### Sep 30, 2024

#### Organization Models and Relationships:

- **Problem**:

  - Need to define relationships between organization-related models for better data structure.

- **Solution**:
  - **Model Relationships**: Implemented relationships for organization-related models to enhance data interaction ([240aaa8](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/240aaa8)).
  - **User Relation**: Established a one-to-one relationship between users and user roles ([81893b9](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/81893b9)).
  - **Role Enhancements**: Added a new property, `description`, to the role model ([7b8dab5](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/7b8dab5)).
  - **User and Role Relationship**: Worked on relationships between user, role, user-role, and permissions ([8afd38c](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/8afd38c)).
  - **Migrate Config Removal**: Removed the migration configuration file that was no longer needed ([0541990](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/0541990)).

#### Model Cleanup:

- **Problem**:

  - Need to remove unused code from models to streamline the codebase.

- **Solution**:
  - **Code Removal**: Cleaned up unused code from various model files to improve maintainability ([221e513](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/221e513)).

### Oct 2, 2024

#### Model Updates and Configuration:

- **Problem**:

  - Need to fix model property types and update package configurations.

- **Solution**:
  - **Model Property Fix**: Changed the property types in the user model to ensure proper data handling ([a953dac](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/a953dac)).
  - **HTTP Status Package Update**: Updated the HTTP status package for improved functionality ([90c0b8d](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/90c0b8d)).
  - **Dotenv CLI Setup**: Set up `dotenv-cli` for managing environment variables and fixed related testing issues ([86d0bdd](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/86d0bdd)).
  - **JSON Type Work**: Worked on implementing JSON type handling in the site model ([f402270](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/f402270)).

#### Documentation Updates:

- **Problem**:

  - Need to improve documentation clarity and best practices.

- **Solution**:
  - **Documentation Edits**: Edited various texts across documentation for clarity ([dcc1f55](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/dcc1f55)).
  - **Navbar Updates**: Updated the README file to include best practices and navbar details ([ac77525](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/ac77525)).
  - **Auth Registration Fix**: Fixed the registration test in the authentication API to ensure proper functionality ([d0f74b8](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/d0f74b8)).
  - **Commit Best Practices**: Added a section in documentation regarding best practices for git commits ([08943d4](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/08943d4)).

#### Database Configuration Reversion:

- **Problem**:

  - Need to revert changes made to the Sequelize configuration.

- **Solution**:
  - **Config Reversion**: Reverted the changes in `sequelize.config` to restore the previous migration setup ([9631fdd](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/9631fdd)).
  - **Sync Removal**: Removed the `sync` method from Sequelize to prevent automatic database synchronization ([d084da2](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/d084da2)).
  - **Timestamp Fixes**: Fixed database model configurations related to timestamps and ensured fields are underscored ([9ed3536](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/9ed3536)).

### Oct 10, 2024

#### Model Development:

- **Problem**:

  - Continuing to develop and refine the data models.

- **Solution**:
  - **Model Work**: Focused on refining various models related to user, role, and system-role ([d767a27](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/d767a27)).
  - **Further Development**: Continued enhancements and updates to the models as necessary ([0d4b7b2](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/0d4b7b2)).

### Conclusion

The initial version of the Edust-Backend established a scalable and modular architecture that allowed developers to easily create and manage new features. With the implementation of user authentication, role-based access control, organization management, and API documentation, we laid the foundation for a powerful and flexible backend system to support the growing needs of the Edust platform.
