# Version 0.1.0: Initial Backend

## Problem Statement

The primary challenge we faced in the early stages of backend development was setting up a clean, scalable, and maintainable architecture for a growing set of features. Each new feature required creating models, controllers, services, and route handlers. This became cumbersome as more modules were added, and maintaining consistency became difficult. We needed a solution that allowed the development team to quickly scaffold new features, ensure adherence to coding standards, and efficiently manage role-based access.

## The Decision to Use

To address this, we chose **Express.js** as our backend framework with **TypeScript** for static typing, which helps in reducing bugs and enhancing code maintainability. We also adopted **Sequelize ORM** for database interactions to allow flexibility in switching between different databases like MySQL and PostgresSQL in the future. Also many different packages.

We structured our backend to use the following components:

- **src/api/v0/routes**: For managing the API endpoints.
- **src/api/v0/controllers**: For handling the business logic.
- **src/api/v0/services**: For database and logic abstraction.
- **src/middleware**: For common tasks like authentication and error handling.

## Challenges Faced and Solutions Provided

### Jun 10, 2024

#### Backend Environment Setup:

- **Problem**: We needed to set up a backend environment using Express, TypeScript, and integrate a database. This was crucial for establishing the foundation of our project.
- **Solution**:

  - We started by setting up the basic environment ([99172f8](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/99172f8)).
  - We then set up Express with TypeScript ([429b8a5](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/429b8a5)). Here is an excerpt from the `package.json` file, which highlights the setup:

  ```json
  {
    "name": "edust-backend",
    "version": "1.0.0",
    "description": "",
    "main": "index.js",
    "scripts": {
      "build": "tsc",
      "start": "node dist/server.js",
      "dev": "nodemon",
      "lint": "eslint . --ext .ts",
      "format": "prettier --write .",
      "db:migrate": "ts-node migrate.ts",
      "db:seed": "npx sequelize-cli db:seed:all",
      "test": "echo \"Error: no test specified\" && exit 1"
    },
    "keywords": [],
    "author": "",
    "license": "ISC",
    "dependencies": {
      "bcrypt": "^5.1.1",
      "body-parser": "^1.20.2",
      "cookie-parser": "^1.4.6",
      "cors": "^2.8.5",
      "dotenv": "^16.4.5",
      "express": "^4.19.2",
      "express-validator": "^7.1.0",
      "jsonwebtoken": "^9.0.2",
      "mysql2": "^3.10.2",
      "sequelize": "^6.37.3",
      "umzug": "^3.8.1"
    },
    "devDependencies": {
      "@types/bcrypt": "^5.0.2",
      "@types/body-parser": "^1.19.5",
      "@types/cookie-parser": "^1.4.7",
      "@types/cors": "^2.8.17",
      "@types/es6-promise": "^3.3.0",
      "@types/express": "^4.17.21",
      "@types/jsonwebtoken": "^9.0.6",
      "@types/node": "^20.14.10",
      "@types/sequelize": "^4.28.20",
      "@typescript-eslint/eslint-plugin": "^7.16.0",
      "@typescript-eslint/parser": "^7.16.0",
      "eslint": "^9.6.0",
      "eslint-config-prettier": "^9.1.0",
      "eslint-import-resolver-typescript": "^3.6.1",
      "eslint-plugin-prettier": "^5.1.3",
      "nodemon": "^3.1.4",
      "prettier": "^3.3.2",
      "sequelize-cli": "^6.6.2",
      "ts-node": "^10.9.2",
      "ts-node-dev": "^2.0.0",
      "tsconfig-paths": "^4.2.0",
      "typescript": "^5.5.3"
    }
  }
  ```

  The setup involved a lot of configuration, such as adding TypeScript support, setting up database migrations and seeders, linting with ESLint, and code formatting with Prettier.

- **Challenges**
  The main challenge we faced was dealing with database migrations and seeders. While there are plenty of resources available for JavaScript, we had fewer resources for TypeScript. We had to figure out how to properly handle these using TypeScript and Sequelize ORM. This took time, but we resolved it by carefully integrating the right TypeScript tools.

### Jun 12, 2024

#### Backend Environment Setup:

- **Problem**: We needed to define and set up roles for both users and organizations in the backend. The goal was to establish a clear structure for permissions and access control across different types of users and organizations within the system.

- **Solution**:

  - Created the **organization model** to represent organizations in the database ([d1c67a0](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/d1c67a0)).
  - Added the **organization role** to handle role-based access for organizations ([f338b50](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/f338b50)).
  - Completed **organization role seeding** to populate the database with predefined roles ([81f9852](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/81f9852)).
  - Built the **user model, migration, and seed** to set up users in the system ([a1d421c](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/a1d421c)).
  - Wrapped user generation logic in a function for better management and reuse ([241f58f](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/241f58f)).
  - Created the **role model** for assigning roles to users ([0baef36](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/0baef36)).
  - Updated user and role models to better reflect their relationship and interaction ([c2e6d09](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/c2e6d09)).
  - Established the **user role** to define user access based on their assigned role ([385f912](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/385f912)).

- **Challenges**
  - Setting up `seeding` for both users and organization roles was tricky, especially ensuring that the correct roles were assigned during the database population.
  - Maintaining consistency across both `user roles` and `organization roles` required careful planning and testing to avoid conflicts between the two different role structures.

### Jun 13, 2024

#### Global Error Handling and File Improvements:

- **Problem**: As the project grew, error handling across different modules became inconsistent. There was a need for a unified error-handling mechanism to ensure that errors were managed effectively and didn't cause unexpected crashes. Additionally, some files required improvements to streamline the overall project structure.

- **Solution**:

  - Implemented **global error handling** to ensure consistent error management throughout the application ([e1a908f](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/e1a908f)).
  - Improved various **files and project structure** for better organization and maintainability.

- **Challenges**:

  - Ensuring that all modules and routes properly utilized the global error-handling mechanism required thorough testing and refactoring.
  - Refactoring multiple files without breaking existing functionality was challenging, as changes needed to be incremental and well-coordinated with the rest of the team.

#### Swagger Documentation Setup for API Docs:

- **Problem**: As our API expanded, documenting the endpoints and ensuring developers could easily understand and interact with them became a necessity. Without proper documentation, it was hard for team members and external developers to understand how to use the API.

- **Solution**:

  - Set up **Swagger docs** to API documentation for all routes ([0945626](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/0945626)).
  - This setup allowed us to expose the API documentation at a specific endpoint, `/api-docs`, so it can be accessed easily by any developer.

- **Challenges**:
  - Ensuring that Swagger correctly reflected all routes and endpoints required detailed integration across various modules.
  - Keeping the documentation in sync with the actual implementation was initially a challenge, especially as new routes and features were added.

### Jun 14, 2024

#### User Authentication System Setup:

- **Problem**: We needed to implement a robust user authentication system, allowing users to register and log in using their email and password. Additionally, proper authentication checks and requirements had to be in place for protected routes.

- **Solution**:

  - Implemented the **login feature** where users can log in using their email and password ([2ec994c](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/2ec994c)).
  - Created the **registration service** to allow users to create an account ([9bc8f55](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/9bc8f55)).
  - Established that a **user can create an account** through the registration process ([b2acb6a](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/b2acb6a)).
  - Added **authentication requirements**, ensuring only authorized users can access protected routes ([9682246](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/9682246)).
  - Continued **working with authentication**, refining processes and improving the overall flow ([842d8b5](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/842d8b5)).

- **Challenges**:
  - Ensuring the authentication flow was both secure and user-friendly was a key challenge.
  - Properly handling edge cases, such as incorrect credentials or missing authentication tokens, required extensive testing.
  - Integrating the authentication system across all modules while maintaining scalability for future features was complex and required coordination across the development team.

### Jun 15, 2024

#### Added PugJS for Templating:

- **Problem**: As we worked on backend development, we required a flexible and efficient templating engine to dynamically generate HTML for certain features. The goal was to make server-side rendering easier and more efficient.

- **Solution**:

  - Integrated **PugJS** into the project as our templating engine ([b975e36](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/b975e36)).
  - This allowed us to create reusable HTML templates, simplifying the rendering of dynamic content.

- **Challenges**:
  - Learning and implementing **PugJS syntax** across different views and ensuring consistency with previously used static HTML was initially challenging.
  - Adapting the existing project structure to incorporate **PugJS** required some refactoring, especially in routes that rendered views dynamically.

#### User Authentication Improvements and Swagger Fixes:

- **Problem**: We identified issues in the user authentication process, especially with finding users by email and ensuring proper protection for authenticated routes. Additionally, there were inconsistencies in the Swagger documentation for login and registration endpoints.

- **Solution**:

  - Improved the **findUserByEmail** function for more accurate user retrieval ([e7c373b](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/e7c373b)).
  - Implemented **authenticated route protection** to ensure only logged-in users can access specific routes ([0d07857](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/0d07857)).
  - Enhanced the **usersGetMe** route to retrieve user data based on their email, streamlining the user profile endpoint ([9b01cff](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/9b01cff)).
  - Fixed issues with **Swagger documentation** for login and registration routes, ensuring all details were correctly displayed in the API docs ([ab5fd2c](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/ab5fd2c)).

- **Challenges**:

  - Ensuring that **email-based user retrieval** was consistent across multiple services and routes, especially during the login and profile processes.
  - Adding **protection for authenticated routes** required refactoring several parts of the codebase to ensure proper checks and balances were in place.
  - Maintaining the accuracy of **Swagger documentation** as the codebase evolved, particularly for frequently changing authentication endpoints, was an ongoing challenge.

### Jun 16, 2024

#### Fixing Issues with Path Alias:

- **Problem**: We encountered issues with the use of **path aliases** in the codebase. These problems caused difficulties in importing modules and managing the project's structure efficiently, leading to confusion and errors.

- **Solution**:

  - Fixed the issues related to **path aliasing** by correcting alias paths in the `tsconfig.json` file and ensuring all imports were properly referenced ([4b7215b](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/4b7215b)).
  - Verified that the project structure and paths were well-aligned with the updated alias configurations.

- **Challenges**:
  - Troubleshooting **path resolution errors** caused by misconfigured aliases, which required careful examination of import statements throughout the project.
  - Ensuring that the **TypeScript compiler** and runtime could consistently resolve the aliases without issues during both development and production builds.
  - And also more import think that is in **database** directory we don't use any alias for `sequelize` migration problem.

#### Database Models, Relationships, and Role Management Enhancements:

- **Problem**: As the project grew, we needed to enhance the database model structure and relationships to properly handle user roles, foreign keys, and organization creation. Additionally, the structure of our models and their relationships was becoming more complex, leading to potential inconsistencies.

- **Solution**:

  - Improved **role conversion** and added more user data to enhance flexibility ([fe0e875](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/fe0e875)).
  - Enhanced **database relationships** to better manage foreign key associations between models ([c6062e3](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/c6062e3)).
  - Created the **root models directory** to establish a clean structure for all models ([f1dcdb6](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/f1dcdb6)).
  - Ensured that the **userRole foreign key** was working correctly, resolving key mapping issues ([e985bcd](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/e985bcd)).
  - Cleaned up **models/index.ts** to maintain a cleaner structure for importing models ([7753010](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/7753010)).
  - Fixed **model relationships** to ensure seamless interactions between users, roles, and organizations ([41b70c9](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/41b70c9)).
  - Implemented **organization creation**, allowing users to create and manage organizations ([201c86a](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/201c86a)).

- **Challenges**:
  - Ensuring that **role conversion** worked smoothly across different components while integrating the new data fields.
  - Handling **foreign key relationships** between user roles and organizations required careful management to avoid breaking dependencies in the database.
  - Structuring the **models directory** and fixing relationships to avoid potential circular dependencies or incorrect associations during development.

### Jun 17, 2024

#### Authentication and Security Enhancements:

- **Problem**: We needed to improve security by enhancing token management and implement additional features related to user authentication, such as organization creation and middleware improvements.

- **Solution**:

  - Added **documentation for logout** and login endpoints ([92eb01f](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/92eb01f)).
  - Improved token security by **storing tokens in cookies** rather than in the request body for better protection ([2dc8e7e](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/2dc8e7e)).
  - Enabled **organization creation** and enhanced token management by allowing re-sending tokens when needed ([2fe3c56](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/2fe3c56)).
  - Worked on the **authentication middleware**, ensuring smoother integration with various routes and services ([0105b0e](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/0105b0e)).

- **Challenges**:
  - Securing tokens while maintaining ease of use required balancing **security** and **performance**.
  - Ensuring that **organization creation** was properly linked to user authentication and that tokens were handled securely during the creation process.
  - Improving the **authentication middleware** to ensure proper request validation without introducing performance overhead.

#### Migration File Path Updates:

- **Problem**: The existing migration file paths were not optimized, leading to issues with consistency and organization across the project.

- **Solution**:

  - **Changed migration file paths** to ensure better organization and file management across the project ([dd19762](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/dd19762)).
  - Updated the `migrate.ts` file to reflect the **new file path structure**, making migration operations smoother and more reliable ([6a404c0](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/6a404c0)).

- **Challenges**:
  - Ensuring that the **file path changes** did not disrupt existing database migration processes or configurations.
  - **Adapting the team** to the new file path structure and ensuring seamless integration into the existing workflow.

#### Email Sender and Role-based Authentication Fixes:

- **Problem**:

  - The email sender service was not functioning as expected, causing issues with sending notifications.
  - Role-based authentication had errors, leading to incorrect permission handling.

- **Solution**:

  - Implemented a **working email sender service**, allowing notifications to be sent reliably across the system ([8e8d16e](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/8e8d16e)).
  - **Fixed errors in role-based authentication**, ensuring correct role permissions are applied and access is restricted appropriately ([d883c8d](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/d883c8d)).

- **Challenges**:
  - Debugging the **email sending process** to ensure consistent delivery across different environments.
  - Resolving the **role-based authentication errors** while maintaining security and ensuring minimal disruption to existing users.

### Jun 18, 2024

#### Email Templates, Token Expiration, and Password Reset:

- **Problem**:

  - Emails sent were plain text and lacked a professional appearance.
  - Tokens for authentication and password resets had no automated expiration mechanism.
  - The password reset process was incomplete and lacked the necessary controller and model implementation.

- **Solution**:

  - Integrated **Pug templates for emails**, enhancing the design and readability of the emails sent ([d912de7](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/d912de7)).
  - Implemented **token expiration using cron jobs**, ensuring that tokens automatically expire after a set time period ([066695f](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/066695f)).
  - Added functionality for **forget password** with OTP and password reset flow ([0384050](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/0384050), [851d368](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/851d368)).
  - Created the **forget-password controller**, finalizing the password reset process ([c06efea](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/c06efea)).
  - Developed the **password-reset-token model and migration**, ensuring token storage and validation for secure password resets ([6764de0](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/6764de0)).

- **Challenges**:

  - Designing dynamic email templates using Pug to support multiple types of emails.
  - Ensuring the **cron job** for token expiration works seamlessly without interrupting user sessions or functionality.
  - Securing the **password reset flow** to prevent unauthorized access while maintaining ease of use for legitimate users.

### Jun 27, 2024

#### Error Handling Improvements and Middleware Adjustments:

- **Problem**:

  - Error handling mechanisms were not standardized across the project.
  - Logging needed to be optimized to provide more concise request data.
  - The `bodyParser` middleware was redundant as Express already provides built-in support for parsing request bodies.

- **Solution**:

  - Improved error handling by replacing custom error logic with **`createHttpError`**, providing more standardized and readable error responses ([92e9eca](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/92e9eca), [5421b01](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/5421b01)).
  - Set up **Morgan with the `tiny` format** for lightweight logging, improving logging efficiency without losing valuable information ([d182da0](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/d182da0)).
  - Removed the redundant **`bodyParser` middleware** to streamline middleware use and prevent unnecessary dependencies ([3db16ba](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/3db16ba)).
  - Fixed configuration issues in **tsconfig** to ensure proper TypeScript compilation and project setup ([d3f7ab7](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/d3f7ab7)).

- **Challenges**:
  - Ensuring that replacing the custom error logic with `createHttpError` did not break existing error-handling flows.
  - Keeping the log files concise yet informative with Morgan’s `tiny` format.
  - Adjusting the `tsconfig` setup to handle the evolving structure of the project without introducing breaking changes.

### Jun 29, 2024

#### Database Table Setup and Command Adjustments:

- **Problem**:

  - The database migration command was causing issues on Windows environments.
  - Some unnecessary packages were cluttering the project and needed to be removed.
  - New tables for images and organization page data were required to support new features.

- **Solution**:

  - Adjusted the **migration command** to address Windows-specific issues by modifying the script to ensure compatibility across different environments ([cf23000](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/cf23000)).
  - **Removed unnecessary packages** to clean up the project dependencies and improve maintainability ([e869430](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/e869430)).
  - Created a **new database table for storing images**, enabling the system to save and manage media content more effectively ([2939f50](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/2939f50)).
  - Set up a **new organization_page data table** to store additional information related to organizations' customizable pages ([1ea9f4a](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/1ea9f4a)).

- **Challenges**:
  - Ensuring that the migration command worked seamlessly across different operating systems without causing issues for developers using Windows.
  - Identifying and safely removing packages without breaking existing functionality.
  - Structuring the new tables to efficiently handle media storage and organization data while maintaining optimal performance.

#### Validation Setup for Authentication:

- **Problem**:

  - Implementing proper validation for user registration to ensure the input data is accurate and secure.
  - The need to adjust naming conventions for better clarity and functionality within the project.

- **Solution**:

  - Set up **express-validator** for handling input validation during user registration, ensuring that incoming data meets specified requirements ([45b425f](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/45b425f)).
  - Changed a **naming convention** to improve the readability and functionality of abilities related to user roles and permissions ([34e5dc9](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/34e5dc9)).
  - **Validator setup** completed for user authentication to maintain consistent and secure input validation across various endpoints ([48b6987](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/48b6987)).

- **Challenges**:
  - Ensuring validation rules were comprehensive enough to cover all necessary input fields without introducing excessive complexity.
  - Refactoring and renaming required caution to avoid breaking existing functionality or introducing bugs.

#### PostgreSQL Database Setup and Seed Updates:

- **Problem**:

  - The need to switch from MySQL to PostgreSQL as the primary database while maintaining compatibility.
  - Introducing an organizer user in the seed data to support role-based functionality.

- **Solution**:

  - **PostgreSQL database setup** was completed, including the migration of database-related operations from MySQL to PostgreSQL ([9cf6cba](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/9cf6cba)).
  - Added **organizer user** to the seed data to ensure role-based access control has predefined roles available ([b0b1f73](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/b0b1f73)).
  - The **database name** was changed dynamically to reflect the site name in the configuration, enhancing deployment flexibility ([dc8726e](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/dc8726e)).
  - Set up **PostgreSQL** as an alternative to MySQL, ensuring the codebase supports both databases ([0f2c39a](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/0f2c39a)).
  - Removed unnecessary **logs** to keep the code clean and reduce clutter ([76f2d08](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/76f2d08)).

- **Challenges**:

  - Managing compatibility between MySQL and PostgreSQL databases while ensuring migrations and seeders work seamlessly across both environments.
  - Adjusting configurations to make database settings flexible and easy to adapt for different environments.

### Jun 30, 2024

#### Image and Organization Page Management:

- **Problem**:

  - The need to manage organization pages and images, including uploading, updating, and deleting both pages and images for organization owners.
  - Organization owners should have full control over their site's pages and media.

- **Solution**:

  - **Image Upload**: Enabled organization owners to upload images to the public directory ([f6d8cd0](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/f6d8cd0)).
  - **Image Management**:
    - Allowed organization owners to upload images ([13ffe55](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/13ffe55)).
    - Added functionality to **get all images** uploaded by the owner ([96861f4](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/96861f4)).
    - Implemented the ability for organization owners to delete images using their ID ([782b2f2](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/782b2f2)) and manage image deletion in general ([9fed996](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/9fed996)).
  - **Organization Page Management**:
    - Enabled organization owners to **create pages** for their site ([a592bc4](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/a592bc4)).
    - Allowed them to **update pages** ([9f55b5f](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/9f55b5f)) and **delete pages** as needed ([334bbda](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/334bbda)).
    - Added functionality to **view all pages owned by the organization** ([81a0175](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/81a0175)) and **get all pages by the owner** ([817b770](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/817b770)).
    - Implemented APIs for **site page creation and retrieval** ([b2f2d53](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/b2f2d53), [0c3592f](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/0c3592f)).

- **Challenges**:
  - Ensuring proper access control so that only organization owners can manage their images and pages.
  - Handling large amounts of image data and ensuring efficient retrieval and deletion processes.

### Aug 1, 2024

#### Email Sender Implementation:

- **Problem**:

  - The need to send verification and notification emails to users during the authentication process, requiring reliable email handling in the application.

- **Solution**:

  - **Email Sending Setup**: Implemented email functionality using NodeMailer ([9ad9648](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/9ad9648)).
  - **User Verification**:
    - Added a new column for user verification in the database to manage user email verification status ([a0c408e](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/a0c408e)).
    - Enhanced the authentication process by integrating token-based verification for user registration ([9df3a24](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/9df3a24)).
  - **File Updates**: Updated some file names and organized project structure to better reflect the new email functionality ([8db0d03](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/8db0d03)).
  - **Package Updates**: Made changes to the `package.json` file to include necessary dependencies for NodeMailer ([ad687f0](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/ad687f0)).
  - **Testing**: Conducted tests to ensure that the email generation and sending processes were functioning correctly ([6fd941b](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/6fd941b)).

- **Challenges**:
  - Ensuring emails are sent successfully and are not marked as spam.
  - Handling error scenarios when sending emails and providing feedback to users during the registration process.

#### Testing Implementation:

- **Problem**:

  - The need to ensure the reliability and correctness of the authentication system, including features such as OTP verification and user login. This required a robust testing framework to automate tests and improve code quality.

- **Solution**:

  - **Jest Setup**: Configured Jest for unit and integration testing, including tests for OTP verification and login functionalities ([ef0f2d6](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/ef0f2d6)).
  - **API Testing with Supertest**: Implemented Supertest to facilitate testing of API endpoints, allowing us to simulate requests and validate responses for authentication ([10c9b0f](https://github.com/edust-org/edust-backend/commit/10c9b0f)).
  - **Test Coverage**: Developed a suite of tests to cover key functionalities, ensuring that the application behaves as expected under various scenarios.

- **Challenges**:
  - Creating comprehensive test cases that adequately cover all possible user interactions and edge cases.
  - Ensuring that the testing environment mimics production as closely as possible to avoid discrepancies in behavior.

### Conclusion

The initial version of the Edust-Backend established a scalable and modular architecture that allowed developers to easily create and manage new features. With the implementation of user authentication, role-based access control, organization management, and API documentation, we laid the foundation for a powerful and flexible backend system to support the growing needs of the Edust platform.
